inst/notes/BrAPI_notes.md, before:

---
title: "BrAPI_notes"
author: "Reinhard Simon"
date: "November 30, 2016"
output: pdf_document
---

# General remarks

All id's in request and response objects should be given as integers!? See: germplasm/attributes call.

## SCOPE

Use of Scope: if 'GENOTYPING' is used for calls like 'attributes' should 'PHENOTYPING' be used for calls related to 'traits' and 'variables'?

## Metadata

Metadata are not consistently used in examples.

- Empty pagination is sometimes 'null' or '{}'; should be '{}'.
- Status object is described as list of objects (which is ok) but examples use just one object. E.g.: '{"message": "", "exception": {}}'; but should be: '[{}, ...]'.
- Empty status object should therefore be rather: '"status": []'
- Paging: although the intro says that page counting starts with page = 0 all (?) examples show a 1.

## Call notation

- should we always use the trailing '/' before the question mark for the parameters?
- is there agreement on the full path structure: after the server name there is only one optional path element for the crop on multi-crop databases? That is: my.server.org/[mycrop]/brapi/v1/? No other addtional elements before [mycrop]?
- on a multicrop server: in the concept of REST architecture one should be able to get the next step from just looking at server calls. So, how do I know which crops to look for in the first call? One option: Can we assume an initial empty call for all brapi servers like: my.server.org/brapi/v1/crops which returns the list of all crops on that server and then one can go from there? E.g. assume the crops calls returns crop1, crop2, ... and then one knows that the crop specific calls are accessible via: my.server.org/crop1/brapi/v1/calls; my.server.org/crop2/brapi/v1/calls. In the case of a single crop server as before the 'crop' path element is omitted.

# List of Trials

- Call says: crops; should be: trials

# Germplasm

- naming inconsistent?: germplasmPUI -> donorGermplasmPUI
- acquisitionDate: should be within nested donors (one acquisition date for each donation?)

# germplasm_markerprofiles

- the inner result items should be wrapped into 'data'

# attributes

- response json: 1st entry should probably be: attrubuteDbId (not attributeCategoryDbId; otherwise duplicating with attributeCategoryId)
- attributeCategoryId (2nd entry) should probably be: attributeCategoryDbId
- should there be: pages
- response object: currentPage = 0!
- unclear: attributes are always molecular (genetic/genomic markers)?
  - attributeCategory equals the category of the phenotypic effect (as the example suggests)?
- Or attribute equals 'trait'?

# attribute categories

- defines page and pageSize in parameters (should also be defined then for attributes!)
- contratry to up-front definition: 1st page is defined here as 1 (not 0 as in general?!)

# markers

- should be markers-search (as the section title seems to imply?)
- include parameter: may be better: synonyms?

# markerProfile search

- should als be markerprofiles-search?
- search parameter 'studyDbId' is not in response object
- method parameter not described

# makerprofiles by id

- markerProfilesDbId not in example call but in description; should the call be:
  brapi/v1/markerprofiles/germplasmDbId/?markerprofileDbId={markerprofileDbId}&...
- example on t3sandbox includes in response the field 'encoding': to be used?
- instructions on paging state first page equals 1 (not 0 - contrary to intro)

# allelematrix-search

- in case of multiple markerprofileDbId it is unclear how exactly the response object will look like
- Note: R brapi just sends one profile
- format parameter not documented?
- markerDbId: for multiple the call repeats them; but notation in other cases uses commas?
- there is no germplasmDbId to filter as in the preceding marker data call as part of the path nor as parameter?

Commit message:

fixing safe_split, mw_markers and allelematrix-search on mock server

inst/notes/BrAPI_notes.md, after:

---
title: "BrAPI_notes"
author: "Reinhard Simon"
date: "November 30, 2016"
output: pdf_document
---

# General remarks

All id's in request and response objects should be given as integers!? See: germplasm/attributes call.

## SCOPE

Use of Scope: if 'GENOTYPING' is used for calls like 'attributes' should 'PHENOTYPING' be used for calls related to 'traits' and 'variables'?

## Metadata

Metadata are not consistently used in examples.

- Empty pagination is sometimes 'null' or '{}'; should be '{}'.
- Status object is described as list of objects (which is ok) but examples use just one object. E.g.: '{"message": "", "exception": {}}'; but should be: '[{}, ...]'.
- Empty status object should therefore be rather: '"status": []'
- Paging: although the intro says that page counting starts with page = 0 all (?) examples show a 1.

## Call notation

- should we always use the trailing '/' before the question mark for the parameters?
- is there agreement on the full path structure: after the server name there is only one optional path element for the crop on multi-crop databases? That is: my.server.org/[mycrop]/brapi/v1/? No other addtional elements before [mycrop]?
- on a multicrop server: in the concept of REST architecture one should be able to get the next step from just looking at server calls. So, how do I know which crops to look for in the first call? One option: Can we assume an initial empty call for all brapi servers like: my.server.org/brapi/v1/crops which returns the list of all crops on that server and then one can go from there? E.g. assume the crops calls returns crop1, crop2, ... and then one knows that the crop specific calls are accessible via: my.server.org/crop1/brapi/v1/calls; my.server.org/crop2/brapi/v1/calls. In the case of a single crop server as before the 'crop' path element is omitted. To be more explicit: maybe the crop call should return corresponding links for each crop (like datalinks).

# List of Trials

- Call says: crops; should be: trials

# Germplasm

- naming inconsistent?: germplasmPUI -> donorGermplasmPUI
- acquisitionDate: should be within nested donors (one acquisition date for each donation?)

# germplasm_markerprofiles

- the inner result items should be wrapped into 'data'

# attributes

- response json: 1st entry should probably be: attrubuteDbId (not attributeCategoryDbId; otherwise duplicating with attributeCategoryId)
- attributeCategoryId (2nd entry) should probably be: attributeCategoryDbId
- should there be: pages
- response object: currentPage = 0!
- unclear: attributes are always molecular (genetic/genomic markers)?
  - attributeCategory equals the category of the phenotypic effect (as the example suggests)?
- Or attribute equals 'trait'?

# attribute categories

- defines page and pageSize in parameters (should also be defined then for attributes!)
- contratry to up-front definition: 1st page is defined here as 1 (not 0 as in general?!)

# markers

- should be markers-search (as the section title seems to imply?)
- include parameter: may be better: synonyms?

# markerProfile search

- should also be markerprofiles-search?
- search parameter 'studyDbId' is not in response object
- method parameter not described

# makerprofiles by id

- markerProfilesDbId not in example call but in description; should the call be:
  brapi/v1/markerprofiles/germplasmDbId/?markerprofileDbId={markerprofileDbId}&...
- example on t3sandbox includes in response the field 'encoding': to be used?
- instructions on paging state first page equals 1 (not 0 - contrary to intro)

# allelematrix-search

- in case of multiple markerprofileDbId it is unclear how exactly the response object will look like
- Note: R brapi just sends one profile
- format parameter not documented?
- markerDbId: for multiple the call repeats them; but notation in other cases uses commas?
- there is no germplasmDbId to filter as in the preceding marker data call as part of the path nor as parameter? It seems that the assumption is that a germplasm may have several markerprofileDbId (where each markerprofileDbId in turn is unique for a germplasmId). In the format given in the example (https://github.com/plantbreeding/Documentation/wiki/BrAPI-TSV-Expected-Formats) the table apparently lists markers in the rows and the germplasm markerprofiles in the columns. Should be made more explicit since it seems to me the more standard way in general is to list objects (germplasm) in the rows and attributes (markers) in the columns. The column header should probably therefore be: markerDbId? Assuming 'mpdbid?' stands for 'markerprofileDbId?'?
